README.md, before:

Recipe Stats Calculator
====

In the given assignment we suggest you to process an automatically generated JSON file with recipe data and calculated some stats.

Instructions
-----

1. Clone this repository.
2. Create a new branch called `dev`.
3. Create a pull request from your `dev` branch to the master branch.
4. Reply to the thread you're having with our HR department telling them we can start reviewing your code

Given
-----

Json fixtures file with recipe data. Download [Link](https://test-golang-recipes.s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/recipe-calculation-test-fixtures/hf_test_calculation_fixtures.tar.gz)

_Important notes_

1. Property value `"delivery"` always has the following format: "{weekday} {h}AM - {h}PM", i.e. "Monday 9AM - 5PM"
2. The number of distinct postcodes is lower than `1M`, one postcode is not longer than `10` chars.
3. The number of distinct recipe names is lower than `2K`, one recipe name is not longer than `100` chars.

Functional Requirements
------

1. Count the number of unique recipe names.
2. Count the number of occurences for each unique recipe name (alphabetically ordered by recipe name).
3. Find the postcode with most delivered recipes.
4. Count the number of deliveries to postcode `10120` that lie within the delivery time between `10AM` and `3PM`, examples _(`12AM` denotes midnight)_:
    - `NO` - `9AM - 2PM`
    - `YES` - `10AM - 2PM`
5. List the recipe names (alphabetically ordered) that contain in their name one of the following words:
    - Potato
    - Veggie
    - Mushroom

Non-functional Requirements
--------

1. The application is packaged with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).
2. Setup scripts are provided.
3. The submission is provided as a `CLI` application.
4. The expected output is rendered to `stdout`. Make sure to render only the final `json`. If you need to print additional info or debug, pipe it to `stderr`.
5. It should be possible to (implementation is up to you):  
    a. provide a custom fixtures file as input  
    b. provide custom recipe names to search by (functional reqs. 5)  
    c. provide custom postcode and time window for search (functional reqs. 4)  

Expected output
---------------

Generate a JSON file of the following format:

```json5
{
    "unique_recipe_count": 15,
    "count_per_recipe": [
        {
            "recipe": "Mediterranean Baked Veggies",
            "count": 1
        },
        {
            "recipe": "Speedy Steak Fajitas",
            "count": 1
        },
        {
            "recipe": "Tex-Mex Tilapia",
            "count": 3
        }
    ],
    "busiest_postcode": {
        "postcode": "10120",
        "delivery_count": 1000
    },
    "count_per_postcode_and_time": {
        "postcode": "10120",
        "from": "11AM",
        "to": "3PM",
        "delivery_count": 500
    },
    "match_by_name": [
        "Mediterranean Baked Veggies", "Speedy Steak Fajitas", "Tex-Mex Tilapia"
    ]
}
```

Review Criteria
---

We expect that the assignment will not take more than 3 - 4 hours of work. In our judgement we rely on common sense
and do not expect production ready code. We are rather instrested in your problem solving skills and command of the programming language that you chose.

It worth mentioning that we will be testing your submission against different input data sets.

__General criteria from most important to less important__:

1. Functional and non-functional requirements are met.
2. Prefer application efficiency over code organisation complexity.
3. Code is readable and comprehensible. Setup instructions and run instructions are provided.
4. Tests are showcased (_no need to cover everything_).
5. Supporting notes on taken decisions and further clarifications are welcome.


Solution:
---

__Setup and Run Instructions for the solution__:

1. Clone the git repository, and use dev branch:
    `https://github.com/hellofreshdevtests/charubak-chakraborty-recipe-count-test-2020`

2. Run the build command with make tool:
    `make build-recipe-tool filename="/Users/chachakr/Desktop/test-recipe/hf_test_calculation_fixtures.json"`
 
    Custom fixture file path is mandatory for the build process to run.

3. Run the CLI tool with mandatory search parameters:
    `make run-recipe-tool searchby="Cheese,Steak" postcode="10120" deliverytime="11AM - 1PM"`

    searchby, postcode and deliverytime is mandatory for the tool to run.

Commit message:

included solution document in readme file

README.md, after:

Recipe Stats Calculator
====

In the given assignment we suggest you to process an automatically generated JSON file with recipe data and calculated some stats.

Instructions
-----

1. Clone this repository.
2. Create a new branch called `dev`.
3. Create a pull request from your `dev` branch to the master branch.
4. Reply to the thread you're having with our HR department telling them we can start reviewing your code

Given
-----

Json fixtures file with recipe data. Download [Link](https://test-golang-recipes.s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/recipe-calculation-test-fixtures/hf_test_calculation_fixtures.tar.gz)

_Important notes_

1. Property value `"delivery"` always has the following format: "{weekday} {h}AM - {h}PM", i.e. "Monday 9AM - 5PM"
2. The number of distinct postcodes is lower than `1M`, one postcode is not longer than `10` chars.
3. The number of distinct recipe names is lower than `2K`, one recipe name is not longer than `100` chars.

Functional Requirements
------

1. Count the number of unique recipe names.
2. Count the number of occurences for each unique recipe name (alphabetically ordered by recipe name).
3. Find the postcode with most delivered recipes.
4. Count the number of deliveries to postcode `10120` that lie within the delivery time between `10AM` and `3PM`, examples _(`12AM` denotes midnight)_:
    - `NO` - `9AM - 2PM`
    - `YES` - `10AM - 2PM`
5. List the recipe names (alphabetically ordered) that contain in their name one of the following words:
    - Potato
    - Veggie
    - Mushroom

Non-functional Requirements
--------

1. The application is packaged with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).
2. Setup scripts are provided.
3. The submission is provided as a `CLI` application.
4. The expected output is rendered to `stdout`. Make sure to render only the final `json`. If you need to print additional info or debug, pipe it to `stderr`.
5. It should be possible to (implementation is up to you):  
    a. provide a custom fixtures file as input  
    b. provide custom recipe names to search by (functional reqs. 5)  
    c. provide custom postcode and time window for search (functional reqs. 4)  

Expected output
---------------

Generate a JSON file of the following format:

```json5
{
    "unique_recipe_count": 15,
    "count_per_recipe": [
        {
            "recipe": "Mediterranean Baked Veggies",
            "count": 1
        },
        {
            "recipe": "Speedy Steak Fajitas",
            "count": 1
        },
        {
            "recipe": "Tex-Mex Tilapia",
            "count": 3
        }
    ],
    "busiest_postcode": {
        "postcode": "10120",
        "delivery_count": 1000
    },
    "count_per_postcode_and_time": {
        "postcode": "10120",
        "from": "11AM",
        "to": "3PM",
        "delivery_count": 500
    },
    "match_by_name": [
        "Mediterranean Baked Veggies", "Speedy Steak Fajitas", "Tex-Mex Tilapia"
    ]
}
```

Review Criteria
---

We expect that the assignment will not take more than 3 - 4 hours of work. In our judgement we rely on common sense
and do not expect production ready code. We are rather instrested in your problem solving skills and command of the programming language that you chose.

It worth mentioning that we will be testing your submission against different input data sets.

__General criteria from most important to less important__:

1. Functional and non-functional requirements are met.
2. Prefer application efficiency over code organisation complexity.
3. Code is readable and comprehensible. Setup instructions and run instructions are provided.
4. Tests are showcased (_no need to cover everything_).
5. Supporting notes on taken decisions and further clarifications are welcome.


Solution:
---

__Setup and Run Instructions for the solution__:

1. Clone the git repository, and use `dev` branch:
    `https://github.com/hellofreshdevtests/charubak-chakraborty-recipe-count-test-2020`

2. Run the build command with make tool:
    `make build-recipe-tool filename="/Users/chachakr/Desktop/test-recipe/hf_test_calculation_fixtures.json"`
 
    Custom fixture file path is mandatory for the build process to run.

3. Run the CLI tool with mandatory search parameters:
    `make run-recipe-tool searchby="Cheese,Steak" postcode="10120" deliverytime="11AM - 1PM"`

    searchby, postcode and deliverytime is mandatory for the tool to run.

__Solution Document__:

    Solution Document is available in the below link:
    [Recipe CLI Tool Solution Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19iLeeJeGiNXDMjmZzVjQL2YKW-H-lQZXGZFnhnqB9y0/edit?usp=sharing)
